# hcde-410-final

# Analysis on Data Breaches Trends Over time:

## Abstract:
Since the emergence of data storage and usage over time by private companies, the threats of data breaches have always been a critical  issue, costing both direct financial impacts for industries and indirect impact of personal information stolen to the users of those companies. This paper focuses on analyzing over 9000 data breaches from 2005 to 2018 with an addition of over 370 data breaches events selected from 2004 to 2021. From this, I shed the light upon the detrimental impact of external attackers over the years, causing almost double data records lost in comparison to internal attackers. I also found that hacking breaches still are the majority of breaches, and from this, I unveiled the most targeted organizations, and how the hackers interests changed over time. This data analysis would improve the knowledge of businesses about data breaches trends and help the targeted industries tighten their security system as well as increase education to their internal employees about technology skills. Refer to [A4.ipynb](https://rttl.axdd.s.uw.edu/2021-spring-hcde-410-a/user/qdoan/doc/tree/hcde-410-final/A4.ipynb) for the full analysis and supporting code, as well as a discussion on the limitations of this analysis.

## Reproducibility:
I'm going to examine the dataset containing details on what type of data breach and what type of organization associated with each event on over 9000 reports from 2005 to 2018 from the [PRC](https://privacyrights.org/data-breaches) source and the dataset from [Information is Beautiful](https://www.informationisbeautiful.net/visualizations/worlds-biggest-data-breaches-hacks/) which contains over 30,000 data breaches events from 2004 to 2021, thus, they are more up-to-date data breaches events compared to the first dataset. The goal of the project is to use these two datasets to answer research questions regarding data breaches trends over time. The license of the first source data is Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0), here's the link to its Terms of Use and Privacy: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/. The license of the second source data is Creative Commons license (CC), the link of its Terms is found here: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/. 

The hypothesis in the course of my research project is that data breaches caused by external reasons are more detrimental: causing the most lost in record numbers, than internal reasons. The second hypothesis is that hacking comprises mainly of the total data breaches events. The third hypothesis is that these breaches are most targeted at businesses such as financial and insurance services since these businesses make the most profit compared to other types of businesses. 

